---
layout: post
title: Sustainability et GenAI
image:
  path: /assets/img/blog/Sustainability.jpg
description: >
  Start calculating the CO2 emissions of your GenAI models
sitemap: false
---

Measuring the environmental impact of digital: Why estimate carbon emissions (quantity of CO₂e emissions)?

- Refine practices by using figures to determine whether an investment in a project is justified.
- Provide figures to CSR departments responsible for producing an annual CSR report.
- Objectively assess the impact of IT to facilitate dialogue on the subject.
  Or simply because, as Niels Bohr put it, “Nothing exists until it is measured”.

These reasons are relevant to every digital project. Assessing CO2 emissions for GENAI projects raises questions such as: how much CO2 equivalent did a generative model consume to be used? What is the environmental cost of sending an e-mail generated by a GenAI model? How can the carbon footprint of models be reduced?

$${\color{green}The main recommendation is to start by estimating the carbon footprint of AI generative models}$$ :

## Built-In Search

Hydejack now has Built-In Search. It even works offline. I've been prototyping many approaches and eventually settled on a fully client-side, off-the-main thread solution that perfectly fits the use case of personal sites and shows surprisingly good results[^2].

The new search UI is custom made for Hydejack and shows beautiful previews of your posts and pages, right on top of your regular content.

Together with the Auto-Hiding Navbar, your entire content library is now only a couple of keystrokes away.

## Auto-Hiding Navbar

A navbar that's there when you need it, and disappears when you don't. Simple as that.

## Sticky Table of Contents

Already a staple on so many sites on the web, this pattern is now also available in Hydejack.
What's unique about it is that it simply picks up the table of contents already created by kramdown's `{:toc}` tag and transparently upgrades it to a fully dynamic version.

## …and much more

Other noteworthy changes include:

- Support for Jekyll 4
- Choice between MathJax and KaTeX for math rendering
- Use of `jekyll-include-cache` for drastically improved page building speeds
- New variables configuration file — adjust content width, sidebar width, font size, etc...
- ...and the option to disable grouping projects by year.

Read the the [CHANGELOG](../../CHANGELOG.md){:.heading.flip-title} for the full scope of features and improvements made in Hydejack 9.
Maybe just glance at it to confirm that it is indeed a pretty long list.

## Even More to Come

New features for 9.1 are already lined up. Code block headers and code line highlights for even better technical blogging, as well as download buttons on the resume page for PDF, vCard, and Resume JSON are just around the corner.

## Get It Now

The Free Version of Hydejack is now availabe on [RubyGems](https://rubygems.org/gems/jekyll-theme-hydejack)
and for the first time also on [GitHub Packages](https://github.com/hydecorp/hydejack/packages).
The source code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/hydecorp/hydejack) as always.

The PRO Version is scheduled to release on July 7th on Gumroad. Pre-Orders are open now:

<div class="gumroad-product-embed" data-gumroad-product-id="nuOluY"><a href="https://gumroad.com/l/nuOluY">Loading…</a></div>

[^1]: If you are a fan of the old two-column layout, or don't like modern design tropes such as mega headlines, Hydejack lets you revert these changes on a case-by-case basis via configuration options.
[^2]:
    Search was mainly tested for English and German. Please let me know about issues in other languages.
    While I've tried to find a multi-language solution, most showed drastically worse results for the English base case.
    If you're technically inclined, you can adopt the code located in `_includes/js/search-worker.js` to your needs.
